It's after the first snap of cold weather every year that I feel his ghost haunting me. Maybe it's because of the bedroom we once shared in the first small house off of Hyacinth, back when Dad was struggling to stretch his means before the union could protect him. It was back when he told us to leave the windows open at night, so the cool air could recirculate, demanding we shutter the shades in the morning to save on the electric bill, back when the thirty-second showers weren't that hard. We were two young boys that didn't care too much about style or appearance, and only practiced hygiene upon request.
Or maybe it's been the absence of the late night whispers, calling me a nerd before requesting that I help him clear an unbeatable level on his GameBoy, huddled beneath bedsheets on his twin-size bed with the light of the granular screen burning our retinas.
Even after I got my own room in the second house on Ridgecrest, the technology evolved just enough that his whisper became messages over the iPod Touch, through some kid-safe messenger app that censored all the expletives he'd lob at me. The world beyond was quieter with more residential space, and with the windows still open, I'd listen to the sounds of crickets and the train until I fell asleep -- unless I forgot to silence the device that tethered me to my brother like a wireless tin-can telephone.
And now, as spring changes to fall and I settle in the second-story bedroom of this lonely house, I hear all the same sounds of the urban sprawl, spread across a queen mattress that's twice as large as it needs to be, and when I close my eyes and pretend my toes can touch both sides of that old, narrow twin mattress, I can almost convince myself that I'm not alone, that maybe Mom and Dad are right outside the door listening if either one of us troublemakers is trying to beat another temple, or make it to another level.
But I'm too tempered now to take my phone beneath the sheets, since the safety net is gone and work demands my ass there at 9:00 AM sharp. I haven't spoke to another person outside work and family in three long months, and the party walls are so insular that I don't feel socially alone like I did in the fraternity house in college.
I'll close my eyes like I always do, gathering sheets to the wind in the form of melatonin pills to try to get there faster, but the sensation of the cold makes it impossible to escape the clutches of the single image in my mind that brings the incessant vision.
Maybe I shouldn't have asked the survivors for all the details, for dragging every inkling of classified details as if it would bring me some sense of solace, because I mapped out the history of every second down to the smallest detail. That maybe if I could remember for them, for the ones they lost, that my suffering could churn out the residue of all that grief they left behind, all those feelings that had nowhere to go.
So it happens again when my head rests against the pillow, and I'm done stressing over the tasks of tomorrow: when thought loses logic and neurons misfire; when I'm on the edge of returning to further paint the landscape of a sight I never suffered.
I'm buried beneath barricades of bedsheets as the fan spins overhead, dissipating the chill of the outside air. The creak of its unbalanced blades lulls me to slumber as they dice the air, feeling as if they begin to lift the chassis of a steel beast high above the tundra. The wheels of cars on pavement crack into the static of radio chatter, on an isolated channel for communications, and the bundle of blankets wraps into the dense fabric of a thick white jacket beneath a white Kevlar vest, spotted in arctic camouflage.
The twenty-first of October begins again the same way it did all those years ago -- with one more witness than the flight log registered -- and somewhere in that past, I begin again to haunt him.


It's the cold snap that brings him back again.
The cold snap of steel-on-steel on the press-check as he sits in the starboard door seat of the helicopter, just fiddling with it at this point, having recited the words and pictures of the plan a hundred times over.
The six-man patrol of an Army long-range surveillance detachment flies under the cover of darkness in the predawn hours, kept awake by the thrum of the rotor -- and the talk of anything that might distract them. First it was family, then to food, then it devolved to getting Keller to retell the story of his "favorite worst pregnancy scare."
But now the conversation is anywhere else, and instead of Helten delivering another sobering recitation of the plan, Gjersee decides to start a war.
He rubs his mustache. "You fuckers don't even know what good food is. My mom makes the best food. Her enchiladas are amazing, passed town from my abuela."
"Best she can make from the Dollar General," Dunsmore says, dragging the large Pelican case out from beneath the seat. "You people are almost as bad as India in thinking spice equals flavor."
"You take that back," Gjersee groans.
"I'll take it back after you try my dad's tri-tip. He's a beast on the grill, even makes his own barbecue sauce."
"Please," Gjersee says. "We add a tenth as much spice as the sugar your white whales dust on their pancakes," he says. And then he turns to Aberbook, sparing no-one in the free for all. "At least it's better than this guy -- he can't  taste anything his mom makes, because anything that tastes like something isn't Kroger."
"Kroger?" Aberbook asks.
"Yeah, Kroger," Gjersee says.
Keller leans in. "Like Costco? So you're saying she only buys frozen stuff?"
"No, jackass. Kroger -- like the Jews can eat it."
"That's Kosher, you idiot," Aberbook says, and they share a laugh over the comms. "I bet the highlight of your life was the day you won a shirt at the Army pull-up challenge at your high school. The day you realized you were only as good as a GED!"
Gjersee searches for words. And Dunsmore leans in to add: "He's calling you stupid, if you can't put that together. A GED is the piece of paper you were supposed to get at..."
"Enough!" Gjersee kicks his boot against the Pelican case. "Play with your stupid toy. You're a nerd like your brother."
"Don't talk shit about Cody," Jackson says, as he unclips the latches around the top cover, revealing the smooth contours of the RQ-11B Raven drone recessed in the die-cut foam. He frowns when his fingers touch the chassis, feeling the coldness of the metal despite the seven hand warmers pinched between incisions in the foam.
Aberbook squints his eyes when he looks down at the drone. "Say, Jackie, did you plug that thing into the wall last night, or did you forget?"
"It's not that," he says, taking the battery pack underneath his arm. "She's  more of a warm-weather girl. Prefers the sandbox over the tundra."
"Is it still on full charge?"
Dunsmore taps the controller, lighting four green bars. The fourth bark flickers. Then a voice cracks over the radio. 
"SITREP on infil. Two mikes out."
Team Leader Helten raises two gloved fingers before he flicks off the cabin lights. "Two and closing. We'll be Oscar Mike as soon as we touch down. Check white light: we're going dark."
"Going dark," Dunsmore recites, and flicks off the muzzle light he was using to inspect the position of the latches. And after the fumbles over locking the last three, he slides it beneath the seat: closing his eyes, trying to remember how this moment rhymes with the helicopter tour he took in Maui, convincing himself that the biting cold is similar to the numbness of bright sunshine flooding through the window as they descend into the valley of the landing zone.
The dream ends when the door slides open. Synthetic daylight glows green in his night-vision goggles. He removes all his belongings faster than a civilian on a short layover: dismounting the rumbling steel chassis to plant his boots in the dry snow.
It's after the six disembark that the blades accelerate, and moments later, the helicopter is gone, disappearing rapidly into the cover of night, leaving the six skilled foreigners with their feet planted two hundred miles inside a foreign land.
 "We're Oscar Mike," Helten says, urging his team to motion. "We're ten klicks out from observation point Alpha: right on the ridgeline of the suspected logistics hub. And we've got about an hour of dark to get there and set up."
But they're well-conditioned despite the burly camouflaged coats and protective gear: each hauling a load of equipment. In Desert Storm, it was hours spent suffocating in gas-resistant NBC suits under the punishing sun, but even with the alpine cold and constant snowfall, the ache of muscles and thinness of the mountain air makes it feel just as exhausting.
Helten tells his team to "stay frosty" when they break the summit of the first ridge, and Gjersee reminds him that they already are. They walk in a single-file line, compressed by heel and toe so that the snow fills in faster. The others seem alright, but Dunsmore feels his panic rise over the contents of the case.
"How much further, Helten?" Dunsmore mutters.
"About three klicks out. Why, you got somewhere to be?"
"No. I'm not asking for me." Dunsmore gestures to the case. "Some of us can't stand the cold like humans do."
"Then we'll launch shortly after establishing our position," Helten says.
Dunsmore tensions his grasp against the handle, as if he could transfer the rest of his meager surplus of heat. He requisitioned an extra battery, trying to warm it inside his coat as his other hand carries the case, trudging between the sharp needles of unfamiliar trees as Helten heads their caravan.
The sun foreshadows dawn with a hint of deep red, but the cloud cover still saturates the sky, offering an extra hour of absolute darkness, and in that time, a long thirty minutes pass until they arrive.
They pick a fold of the landscape that gives eyes to the valley, but still masked by the shadows of the western slope. Helten runs micro-recon on wind direction and snow density, muttering coordinates in MGRS as Dunsmore transcribes them into the tablet. Gjersee and Aberbook unroll the camo cover to thaw against the brush, setting a tarp down in an odd recession of the ridge that masks the mast as just another continuation of its rocky edge.
Chemlights are planted in the snow with the glow facing down, and the infrared strobes are tested: only visible as a green shimmer on their night vision goggles.
It's hard enough to set up camp when Jackson dedicates so much of his focus to warming the heart of the drone, reminding him of the battery on his GameBoy Advance back in middle school, when his family took ski trips to the mountains and his brother Cody hoarded the console for too long.
He finds the courage to peek at the power level indicator: two lights out of four, and it hits him with a panic. It's been nearly five minutes since setup and the camo tarp already bows under the weight of the fat flakes, and though it blends them further into the landscape, Gjersee works to gently shake off the residual clumps of sticky snow.
Jackson's hands feel so slow when he withdraws the Raven's controller, cracking open the pelican case for one last time as he steadies the small machine in his hands. He snaps the battery into its slot as Aberbook watches -- steadying the drone in one hand like his father Alan once did with the model plane at the park.
And in one smooth throw from behind cover, tangent to the perimeter of the logistics hub, the engine whirs to life, climbing as the small, matte, metal bird struggles to settle in the slipstream of the valley's wind lane, scanning with its watchful eye.
Helten records this stage in his logbook: 0428 / INFIL COMPLETE / OP ALPHA ESTABLISHED. Above their heads, the silent drone slices the precipitous air with its long, curved wings, and even higher, Overwatch listens for every word of their transmissions, transcribing their reports to the last surviving record of OPERATION BLUEWINGS.
The team settles in absolute silence against sleepless shadow. Jackson flies the grid as the rest of the team stakes the sectors and posts observers.
The heavy gusts knock the Raven sideways as it tries to stabilize. Without the feedback of the whir overhead -- or a haptic sense of the drone's disturbances -- Jackson Dunsmore feels deprived of critical senses that might allow him to steady the small machine that's bullied and buffeted about the sky. 
He holds a breath until the thin air burns his lungs. The console's power indicator flicks down to the second bar, and the wind is getting stronger, covering the display with flakes of snow that are too cold to condense.  And as the Raven approaches for its first pass over the logistics hub, the first signatures of enemy life illuminate the screen: far more dots of white-hot heat than they anticipated.
"I'm counting at least twenty tangos on the ground," Jackson mutters. It was supposed to be just several men that were sustaining the supply line, and he doesn't have to infer what that means to the other four of them. There were rumors of his presence in the area, and whether this was an act of God or unfortunate coincidence, the discovery overwrites the assumptions of their plan, and how well-defended this compound might be.
Helten transcribes the discovery that sends an even colder chill through all of them. "Overwatch, confimation of HVT present in facility."
But there's no reply. Dunsmore eyes the rubber antenna pointing like a tiny flag into the darkness.
"Overwatch, do you copy?"
And as the wind accelerates, casting an array of blinding flakes that vanish their operating point into a room of white, Dunsmore struggles to distinguish anything through the drone's camera. The battery level flickers between one and empty, and only halfway over the logistics hub, his controls transfer over in slower and slower responses, like remotely driving a rover on the moon.
He wants to curse, but the fear of violent crosswinds carrying his foreign words halt the words in his throat as his freezing hands tension further around the control sticks. It's then that the feed disconnects entirely, plunging the bright-green rectangle of the screen into darkness.
LIVE FEED DISCONNECTED, it reads, though the vitals of the machine still come through. He drives blind by the accelerometer's roll, pitch, and yaw, panic-stricken by the precipitous pitch that tells it's pointed forty-five degrees down, like a surface-to-air missile without a payload.
Aberbook mutters something to him, but he's too lost in panic: far from staying frosty when his mind is ablaze, struck with the decision whether to level the drone above the enemy's heads in audible detection range, or plunge it straight into the ground to stop the sound.
Then tthe feed flicks back: only for moments, flashing with the white-hot ruminations of a gathering of tangos, so close that he can distinguish the heat from each of their fingers. 
Fate makes the decision for him when the power cuts out. The drone accelerometer coughs one last string of readings: so steep the absolute position is lost in gimbal lock.
ROLL -NaN | PITCH +90.0233 | YAW -NaN
And over the console:
2015-10-03 | JAX$ > **SYSTEM** LINK LOST
2015-10-03 | JAX$ > TELEMETRY FAULT 
2015-10-03 | JAX$ > GPS: FAILURE 
2015-10-03 | JAX$ > BATTERY: CRIT


Jackson's throat goes dry as the tablet flashes red. "Viper Six to Overwatch -- Viper Six to Overwatch, come in. Raven is down . . ." his mind fumbles for the recited coordinates " . . . Raven is down, grid 13T VH 679 334. TIC. Request QRF/CASEVAC. Over."
Static eats the end of his sentence: white and granular like the snow, and moments later, the base's alarm blares loud enough to fight the headwind, radiating the air with flashes of red.
Now thirty sets of enemy eyes scan the ridge, expecting them, with far better equipment than their team could carry on foot. Tracer rounds radiate the snow in streaks of red, punching the crust of the ridge as the team coalesces behind the barrier, their only line to Overwatch severed by the brutal storm.
"This is all my fault," Dunsmore mutters. His voice trembles: their LRF detachment wasn't intended for combat, and six M4 rifles against the concentrated might of the enemy feels like lobbing stones at an M1 Abrams tank.
"You can't control the weather," Gjersee mutters, just as the shrill sound of snowmobile engines undercuts the whine of the alarm. But Dunsmore eyes the antenna, allowing shame to stir his emotions towards an act of courage. 
Helten urges them to move. Keller keeps trying the comms, but to no avail, and as they stumble up the wooded hills with aimless bullets whizzing overhead, they struggle to crest the summit.
The belligerent snowstorm conceals their forms, directed now only by the sense of "toward" and "away". Somewhere below, the snowmobile engines cut off as the enemy follows their footprints, firing volleys uphill as Aberbook takes over trying the radio.
"Viper Six to Overwatch, Viper Six to Overwatch," he says, breathlessly, as rounds eviscerate the bark of trees on their uphill climb. "Request QRF/CASEVAC."
And then static crackles over the radio, interspersed with the words of Overwatch. "Repeat, Viper ... exfil ... activity ..."
Gjersee turns to Dunsmore. "The signal is getting better: once we get up there, we just need a wi--"
The first round finds flesh instead of bark, stealing the words from Gjersee's throat. The punctuation is in the awful gasping sound as Gjersee chokes on blood, unable to breathe enough to continue his climb. Aberbook rushes over to grab him by the vest, dragging him up the hill as his other hand holds his medical provisions. They're so close to the crest of the hill, and as Dunsmore offers his other hand to help Gjersee as the life loosens from his limbs, the first coherent string of words rattles over the comms.
"Viper Six, provide SITREP. Viper Six ..." and then the words retreat to static when the weather accelerates.
Dunsmore is kept viscerally awake by awful sound of Gjersee next to him, as their medic Aberbook tries to tend him on the run. Helten and Keller stay several steps ahead and to the left, firing in bursts back downhill as covering fire.
Dunsmore feels the sting of something hot in his left shoulder, so flooded with adrenaline that he barely registers it, still holding tightly to the antenna as a plan forms in his mind. In the frozen fog of war, the summit is only several steps away. But it's when they cross the threshold that their feet fail to find flat ground.
They haven't the time to warn each other. Aberbook falls with his hand tensioned around Gjersee's collar. Dunsmore holds strong to the antenna as he cascades down a chute of stark land, feeling the texture of every rock and branch that isn't covered with powder, rolling as the strapped rifle flails violently, reaching with his arms for anything to stop him. He stops uphill of the others after several rolls, slamming his back against the bark of a tree, knocking the wind from his lungs in a cloud of exhale.
He hears his comrades falling further as he inspects the antenna and the communications equipment: the last link his team has to Overwatch.
"Regroup," Helten manages over the comms. "Regroup at the bottom for exfil."
"Negative," Jackson says, able to distinguish patches of land from his high point on the eastern slope. "I'm getting us a direct line to Overwatch with coordinates."
"They're right behind us," Keller says. "That's suicide!"
"We each have a job here," Dunsmore says. "Mine is this. Now get the fuck away from here."
He has just enough energy to get high enough on the summit. He parrots, over and over, until his elevation is just enough, as the enemy combatants come closer and closer, able to distinguish every syllable of their language through heaving breaths in the climb. The rifle is too defective to fire, but his handgun is still strapped across his chest, and he withdraws it after he makes it to the top.
The adversary expects them to still be far. It was a couple snowmobiles that raced over here: maybe two tangos per machine, so maybe they're just a small detachment that took a stab in the dark.
Jackson Dunsmore peeks over the edge as the sun barely peeks through the storm, just enough to distinguish their forms. The six climb the hill in a line, and Jackson's pistol is still topped off with fifteen rounds.
He doesn't hesitate to pull the trigger: stabilized with his arms against the hard shell of his equipment. The first two rounds punch through the furthest targets: two headshots, painting the trees with red gray matter stickier than the sap, and when their panic makes them harder to target, Jackson turns the gun to the two closest, delivering two rounds to each of them: enough to cast them to the ground, rolling back downhill as they disappear from sight.
He ducks back behind the ridge as several rounds whiz overhead from automatic weapons. He abandons the equipment for a brief moment as he slides along the edge towards the first two victims: hearing one voice become quiet and another become louder, surely commanding each other to "split up."
Jackson waits as he hears volleys of rounds from the eastern slope, and looking down, he finds the team far down and right, providing covering fire as a distraction, to edge them away from Jackson's position.
Surely enough, the closest combatant turns to approach the other. Jackson hears his voice though he still hides behind the ridge, and when he stands up to fire his rifle, he doesn't expect a seventh.
The trigger pull sounds off a blast in stereo: two simultaneous pulls at two different targets. And though the enemy in front of him collapses, Jackson feels a stinging pain in his chest as he falls to the ground, holding weakly to the summit's edge.
He tastes and smells the iron in the air. It's too dark to distinguish the color fo what flows out in front of him, but the directive changes when he eyes the antenna sitting roughly twenty yards away. 
Rounds from his friendlies blow eviscerate the seventh crouched behind him, and he hears a shrill scream as rifle rounds tear through the flesh of his attacker.  Past the antenna, the last survivor crouches behind the other edge, and as Dunsmore wills his fading body to approach, he reloads the M9 with a magazine: reaching for the first one to find the bullet blasted through his chest and out the center -- then for the second one, removing the empty clip and trading it for another.
The last enemy is injured, in a state of incontroverible panic -- maybe just some low-ranked, dutiful base-dweller servicing snowmobiles and taking stock, and it shows in the spread of bullets. 
He pulls the trigger in Jackson's direction until the mag runs out, pulling three, then four, then five times past the hollow click, reaching into his pockets for more. 
But Jackson is faster. And when he raises the handgun, it takes just one pull for deliverance.
The adversary collapses against the eastern face with part of his jaw missing, twitching before gravity reclaims him, casting him downhill like the rest of Jackson's team. And when he hears the second wave of reinforcements surely responding to the exchange, he rushes faster than his wounds will let him, steadying the antenna as he takes enough wind into his lungs to speak.
"Viper Six to Overwatch, Viper Six to Overwatch, SITREP."
"Solid copy, Viper Six," Jackson hears.
"This is Viper Six, patrol size: six. We are taking contact at grid 13T VH 678 342. Enemy dismounted, seven tangos down with reinforcements along the ridge to the west. Raven down at grid 13T VH 679 334. We are breaking east to rally point Delta. Two WIA. Request immediate QRF and MEDEVAC; priority CASEVAC, over."
He can hear them getting closer: the second set of soldiers ascending the hill after they turn off their engines, then the sound of a helicopter approaching from the west.
He speaks again.
"Viper six to Overwatch -- repeat grid thirteen T, VH, six-seven-eight, three-four-two. Enemy moving into the old logging road. Do not clear fires over the valley until we're on the mark. Over."
"Copy," Overwatch says.
Jackson loses his grasp on the edge. Darkness begins to swim around him: the long blood trail from south to north begins to glisten as light breaks through the storm.
"We're pulling . . . we're pulling . . . viper six out. Jackson, over." He fumbles with the transceiver when his hand can barely hold the button, but manages a final, dutiful breath to mutter one last string of words.
But they aren't the ones that Aberbook's ghost writer wrote: nor the ones delivered in his eulogy.
"Tell--tell them--hold the valley, don't let them--" and then he loses his grasp on the edge, once again rolling down the hill in flashes of white and red and black, until he comes to rest in a gulley, buried by the snowdrifts as a cold sleep washes over him.
His last thoughts are of laughter when the memory of the last family ski trip returns to him: the twenty minutes he spent buried in a hole with his feet bound together by the snowboard. And when someone drags him out by the ankles, he imagines it's the faces of his brother and father that rode the lift again to rescue him.