==============================================
    CHAPTER ONE
==============================================


Inspired. Soulful. And as unpredictable as possible. 
It was the way my instructors in the Northaven military academy told me to approach my combat: that there were only so many techniques they could teach us to commit to memory, that the artistry of the process would have to supersede the mechanics.
But I was far from inspired or soulful when I woke up three hours ago: the first time in a while that the rapping of the knocker beat me to breakfast, causing me to rush through the motions of getting ready. I wore the odd undershirt that Cody gave me to find the slightest advantage when inspiration and soul feel unreachable -- especially after the night before, when I sent Jullian home without any parting grant of affection.
Now I stand in a shooting stall for a short interlude. Test three of four: a brief intermission between demonstrating acts of war. Strength and conditioning were easy because I can train both of them outside the base, avoiding the garrulous crowds that love to speak ill of the weak. And though I placed in the top percentage for each of them, it's the remaining tests that concern me the most. Especially the last one: because defending the innocent is the entire point of service as a Royal Guard.
My finger hovers off the conductive plate of the aged IGR-4 Cinderjack rifle, a beast that's never seen war since it's spent most of its life collecting dust in the armory. I tuck my elbow to my chest, trying desperately to steady my trembling hand on the grip. My overwhelming concern for failure spills over the threshold of my mind, leaking its way into all my nerves and muscles. And the more the anger resists the trembling in my hands, tensing the tendons into a static position, the less control I find I have.
My right hand impatiently waits on my left arm to steady the barrel of the Cinderjack. My eye stares directly downrange through the crosshairs at a disparate spread of punctured points in the paper, depicting the silhouette of a Chymaeran with its sickly, amethyst claws drawn. But not a single shot has hit the two-dimensional bastard in the head, between its triangle of eyes. Only two of the five shots I've taken have ripped the black ink on the parchment.
The Essenced energy coalesces in my right index finger. I can feel the conductivity of the cold steel plate connected to the ignition chamber as my finger is drawn towards the metal, and when I lightly contact the combustion plate, transferring the Essence to incinerate the blasting powder, the round blasts through the rifle, startling me again, punching a sixth hole in the upper left corner of the page.
I look around, expecting laughter, but the shooting range's bays are partitioned by thick steel blinders. Behind me is only the bag of gear I brought for all the exams. And when I look out across the span of twenty sheets, I'm the worst of all of them. 
The guard next to me holds a tight spread of eleven shots that are damn-near heart center, surely the best out of everyone -- and yet my hands tremble so much that I have to rest the rifle against the stand. I watch my rival's rifle protrude from the edge of the partition one last time to purge the mag of its twelfth and final round. 
His barrel is steady. His aim is calculated. And when their finger conducts Essence through the Cinderjack, the rifle hardly jumps as a bullet hole erupts through the black on the page: completing a circle of holes so perfectly apportioned that it clips a single paper snowflake, excising the entire Chymaeran's chest.
And then a set of long, black, manicured nails reaches for the rope of the pulley, dragging their disfigured parchment victim back to the firing line. And when it arrives, I raise my rifle in response, insecure about all the time I'm wasting. I fight the tremor I've had since the night of the fire, but just before I can begin to take aim, I feel a hand on my shoulder.
"Stop for a moment. You have to stop holding on so tightly."
It's a female voice. And I realize that my rival isn't a man after all.
"You're making the same mistake that my older sister did: trying to overcompensate for the recoil. But you'll never be able to control it. Just let it happen," she says.
I feel my ego flare on her words, as if someone my age should be sharing an instructor's commands. But I'm not good enough to do anything other than agree. "Thanks," I say.
"Just -- stop for a minute," she commands. "Those rounds aren't going to leave the mag on their own: they can wait for a little while."
Uncomfortably, I lower the rifle and return it to the rack, and when I turn around, I find she's the only other Ahkvasan in our class: a cross-blooded demihuman with jet-black hair and cat ears that stares me down with slits of piercing, blue eyes, a visual rhyme that I can't yet place. She's trying to be helpful, but her words sound like ice, lacking any of the warmth that might comfort me. Yet her eyes light with some odd glimmer of excitement.
"Katiya Breakey-Hilde," she says. "You're one of the survivors of Hillfar that returned to finish the fight. I've heard so much about you."
"Oh, really?" I ask, wondering if now is really the time when I'm in the middle of failing my third exam. "And who told you about that?"
"I was in the same Strategies class. For the final project, you gave that 'after-action' analysis on what should have happened during the Siege of Hillfar -- and told the story of your survival. You said you were coming back to 'save whoever your could from the same fate you were too small and weak to resist.' And your courage is actually what gave me the idea to follow my sister here."
"Your sister?" I say. "And I followed my brother. Maybe they know each other?"
"She's no longer around," she says, bluntly.
"Oh. I'm sorry to hear that."
"No. She was too weak. She was sent to the front lines. She didn't make it to the other side," she says, showing the slightest sliver of emotion that immediately dissolves.
I feel the urge to return to my exam, but she keeps talking, extending her hand. "My name is Aryn. Aryn Kesgrisin. I tried to introduce myself when I was standing right next to you at the parade, but we were interrupted."
"Yeah. By a humiliating failure," I say, turning my eyes down to the floor.
"It was an act of courage that others are jealous of. Malicious talk is all they have. Ever since that day I admired you even more," she says. "Jullian says I speak so highly of you that I should be in a relationship with you instead of him, though I don't know what that means."
"Jullian?" I ask. My stomach turns in another direction. "How do you know my boyfriend?"
"Jullian is one of the friends in our group. He talks a lot about you: complains that you never go on quests with us. I think those local quests are such a waste of talent, don't you think? Just an excuse to dole out skilled soldiers for stupid chores."
"A waste?" I ask. "I think they're important. You have to do your time to get to know the people."
"See? That's what I tell Jullian," she says. "He keeps telling us you're afraid. But a person like you, that came back here to protect? I didn't believe that for a second."
"Yeah," I say, hoping I can bend the anger of that truth into six more perfect rounds in a Chymaeran's chest. "I came here to serve first. I'll be living with these people, so I should know them."
"Then I ought to join you one of these times," Aryn says, rolling the target sheet in her claws until it becomes a punctured scroll. "Well, I hope our paths cross again soon. And if it's today, I won't be showing you any mercy. You're a good rival, and there's a lot I think you can teach me."
"Until then," I say, feeling far more unraveled than I did before. The proctors begin to clean the nineteen other bays for another round of cadets, and when I get a glare from one of Aldrin's instructors, I level the rifle towards the sinister glare of the unwounded Chymaeran silhouette.
I repeat her words, distracting myself with how senseless and insincere they sound. Just let it happen. 
I rack the seventh round. Just let it happen, Katiya, though every blast reminds me of the raucous explosions I heard in the distance as a child in hillfar, just waiting for one of those blasts to come closer.
Upper right corner.
Fuck.
Just let it happen. Maybe you should have let yourself die. Maybe you're just dragging out something that should have happened all those years ago. I ignite the Cinderjack again, blasting a hole through the top of the Chymaeran's head.
Just let it happen, you yellow bitch. How about you turn that gun around?
Bottom left thigh, barely in the black.
You were such a hero, the way you let that Chymaeran guised as Bertram just 'let it happen' to that noble.
Midsection. Crotch shot, barely off the black.
And the way you let it happen with Jullian walking all over you. Maybe I'm the one that gave him that hickey on his neck.
Bottom right of the page, entirely off the white.
Let it happen? Maybe you've never learned that if you just "let things happen," that's how you get yourself killed!
Dead-center headshot.
And then I feel the tingling in my fingers, breathing heavily, realizing that I haven't been breathing this entire time.
It's only after I retrieve the target that I turn around to find my friends gathered behind me: Paxton, Naya, and Ryder, with Bertram in his first debut since recovery.
"The final test is up next," Bertram says. "How did you fare on the others?"
"Roughly average. Still can't shoot. I'm done if I fail the next one," I say.
"Then we better group up," Paxton says. "I hear we're facing Jullian and his friends."


"I hear we're presenting to Kei and the rest of the team," Reed says, sipping on his second cup of coffee. He drinks that shit to calm down, while I chug energy drinks just to stay awake.
He invited me to walk around the building. Usually I turn him down, but this time, he said he wanted to talk about our presentations -- and unthreatened by his grandiose design I peeked at every time I passed his computer, I decided to oblige. 
We walk shoulder-to-shoulder around the rectangular building. The  weather-worn concrete is pallid with ancient tan like those old monitors, mice, and keyboards from the nineties, and when I peek inside, I see the lifers still stuck in their old ways, clicking away on CRT screens that could heat a breakfast burrito on a cold winter's day.
But I'm just trying to distract myself. I created and finished the presentation within an hour: a meager six slides, and only two with text, hoping that the simplicity of my design will speak enough.
KISS. Keep it simple, stupid.
Reed takes a sip from his steaming paper cup. Most times we reminisce on our old days of playing lacrosse like two awkward teammates at a high school reunion. I ramble on about technique: mastering the rusty gate check and ripping corner pockets. He talks about camraderie, and how much he enjoyed the team dynamics.
"But I think it's important," he insists, and I check my watch: thirty-two minutes until the meeting. "Getting to know all the people you can when you get on a team. I find people so interesting. It's like Carnegie says in How To Win Friends And Influence People, you know, you have to mean it."
Christ. Didn't know I was talking to a self-help guru. "Yeah. People can be interesting," I say.
"I just met Bruce on the floor: you know, Brucifer? The guy that wears the tie-die shirts, and always dresses up for holidays like St. Patrick's Day and Christmas?"
I take a sip from the can, then swallow. "Yeah."
"He took a look at my design. Gave me some feedback, and I barely had enough time to add all the changes," he says. "How many last-minute changes were you making?"
I take another long sip, relishing the carbonation, then swallow, hoping to drag out our conversation until it's paper-thin. "Mine's been locked for several weeks. Didn't really require much -- I've been more focused on getting through redlines for Nav."
"Huh," he says. I notice his hands are shaking a little, but he tries to steady it. But when he notices that I notice, he feels the need to explain. "Still get nerves over performing. I know it's stupid, but there's a lot of pressure."
"Pressure from who? You're still the 'new guy.' You have plenty of room for imperfection."
"I wish I could think that way," he says. "It seems to work pretty well for people like you and my brother."
His comment catches me off guard, and I lean against the wall to stop us, engrossed for the first time in this courtesy conversation. "And what do you mean by that?"
He looks at me directly. "You know, you come in, do your time, and leave, and that's about it. And I guess there's nothing wrong with that, if the work gets done. A lot of the lifers take it that way. Especially in the battery division."
"That's because I owe this company nothing more than what the contract says," I say, glaring evenly back at him. "Designing battery enclosures isn't that enthralling. Even with this project -- you know, one time I let my heart get a little too much into it, and they shot me down. All they want is the cheapest, simplest approach."
"But can you really survive the rest of your career like that?" Reed gestures intensely with his hands, almost upset. "What's your goal here? Is this just a jumping-off point for you? I mean, Navidson-Monroe is pretty prestigious."
"I wanted to design stuff in Aerospace," I say, then correct myself. "Want to. Designing tockets. Thermodynamic systems for engines. Research and development stuff." I turn my eyes to the top of the hill, struggling to discern the lines in the architecture when the sun is in my eyes. "They always warned us at University that we'd end up designing 'door hinges for Ford' for the rest of our lives -- and every day it feels like the dream gets a little further."
"It's sad to hear that," Reed says, leaning with a single foot against the brick.
"I'm not asking for your sympathy," I say, trying to keep the conversation at a corporate level. "Why do you care so much? You're great at 'playing the game,' but to what end? Are you trying to get into management?"
"I have legacy here," Reed says. "My father was in senior management: vice president of operations."
"Good for you. Nice to have a chip on your shoulder: start ahead a little."
"We all start somewhere," he says. "Where doesn't matter. It's about doing something with it. And I have to be better."
"But why?" I ask.
"Because my older brother amounted to nothing," he says. crunching the plastic cup in his grasp. "And, goddamn it, I'm the only one left that cares!"
"And I'm the only brother left in my family that's alive," I say. "While your father worked up there, mine was on the floor, working double shifts. Sure, he expects me to succeed. But doesn't yours care more if you're happy?"
"He cares that I participate in the game, here," he says. "He cares that I try. Not that I just scroll the internet for six hours at a time."
I temper my voice. "What, you think that's all I do all day?" My fist tensions against the brick. "Who got furloughed and made you manager?"
"It's because I think you're a brilliant engineer, Cody," Reed says. "My brother was a year ahead of me in my engineering program at Boulder. He was brilliant like you -- had that 'knack' that I always wished I had, but he dropped out. Doesn't even speak to us anymore."
"I wouldn't either, under pressure like that, " I say. "And I can't drop out of Navidson-Monroe."
"Look -- I looked up your work after Kei and I talked about you."
"And when was that?" I ask.
"After coffee and . . . a movie, a couple times, but it doesn't matter, but that drone project? That's some seriously incredible work."
His words catch me off guard again. "Uh . . . thanks."
 "And you did it all alone!"
 "Yeah. I did," I say.
"You know, I just think nobody's given you the kick. Nobody ever compliments each other. I get it's just redlines most of the time, but don't you want to feel something behind it?"
"Feel what?"
"That you're getting closer to something," he says. "That you have a goal, and it's still there. That. . ."
A couple bean counters turn the corner, staring at Reed and his aggressive posture. We snap our heads to face them, looking like we're caught in some scandalous after-hours shit.
"Oh. Hey there," Reed says.
"Hey," one of them says.
"Hi," I respond.
I swirl the can.
"You guys alright, there?" They ask.
I take the last sip of my drink, in as chill of a manner as possible. "Yeah. Just arguing over what size fastener to use. Say . . .  do we still use that KANBAN system on the floor?"
They pause for a moment as Reed still holds his position. It's so quiet we can hear the dry grasses in the hills wave with the wind.
"Uh . . . yeah. But why would that change?"
"With quarter-inch increments?"
"Yeah?"
"Oh. Good, then," I say, then turn to Reed. "See, I told you, bro. Five-sixteenths UNC is fine, as long as it's one of the quarter sizes. Not that eighths shit." I wait for them to start to walk away, swirling the last remnants of liquid energy in the can as I ramble further. "You only need one-and-a-half-diameter thread engagement, but you can go longer, and--"
Reed leans back, creasing his brow between his fingers.
"What?" I ask.
"I, uh . . ." he mutters.
"Did you forget where you were at?" I check my watch. "You said I was like your brother. Who's like my brother."
But still breathing.
". . . then date with Kei, then she mentioned your project . . ."
"Date?" I ask.
" . . . then looked it up, then -- yeah, and . . . oh, right. I'm just trying to say that people like Kei and I shouldn't be the only ones that care that your name wasn't on that wall."
"So you noticed," I say, knowing perfectly well that they did. And when he says it, it makes me feel something that I haven't felt in a while. It's a feeling like all those times in college, when my roommates kept asking me to go out, but I kept turning them down -- but they still never stopped asking, and it meant the world to me.
"So I don't care about seniority," he says. "I'm gunning for a promotion no matter where I'm at. And either I'm taking you with me, or I'm leaving you behind. But you could use a push."
It feels like a face-off. If this were a lacrosse match, we'd be on our knees as midies at the dead center of the field: sticks raised, baskets inverted, pining after the same ball at the sound of a whistle.
But those years are long past. And this is stupid.
"Whatever you say, bro," I tell him, tossing the empty can in the bin, turning for the door with a feeling of fire. "One day you'll learn the same lesson I did. Maybe today, when you'll learn not to add all those fucking fillets."
"It's the best teammate that wins," Reed says. "Not the best design."
But the fire is beneath me: not within, like him. So it only lasts until I make it to my cubicle, calming myself down as I review the templated slideshow, the background pallid tan like every wall in this lifeless building.
The color of hope.
This world will shatter that fucking guy, I think. And I hope today is when it finally reaches him.


I'm certain that today is when it all finally reaches me. It's not because of the spread of punched holes in the target, nor is it the gossip and glare of cadets that watch us atop the old castle walls.
It's the unpracticed way the weight of the armor restrains my body. For so long, the cosmetic shell of thin steel was all I wore on my missions in the interior. Swinging my arms down with a wooden sword feels foreign when my hands have calloused more from benign fieldwork. All my muscle memory remembers is tilling fields and raking leaves, only adding to the panic I feel when the five of us stand beneath the fluttering crimson flag.
The commander orders us to "chalk up," and we dip our weapons into the barrel of red powder. Paxton traces lines beneath the burrows of his eye sockets. Ryder loads powdered crimson marking rounds into the rifle. Naya settles the dusted dagger in a holster across her chest, and as I sheathe the chalk-covered training sword in my holster, feeling no better practiced than someone like Cody, I try to draw the courage to admit how much I need this.
My eyes scan the landscape. It's the decrepit servants' quarter of the old castle: the same place I chased down the thief, only three stories lower and vacant of drifters and vagrants. The wooden roofs either burned in the ancient siege or crumbled to dust from so many cycles of calamitous weather, leaving only the stone walls to partition a perfect battlefield for observation. And we stand at the northeast end, preparing ourselves to strike the blue team in the southwest.
While Paxton's busy deliberating over designs for his improvised face paint -- coated redder than the faces of Sun-scorched vagabonds, the special headband still hangs from a peg on the crimson flag, its gold stripe reflecting the meager light obscured by the tall castle walls.
And before I open my mouth to courageously plead, Bertram beats me to it.
"We need a plan," he says.
"But we need to decide on a team leader first," Ryder says. "On that first practice exam, we were defending. But now, we're attacking."
"So we treat the bystanders as hostages?" Naya asks.
"Yeah. And the other team treats them as targets for protection," Ryder replies. He takes the glistening span of fabric from the pole, turning to Bertram. "You've been out for a while. Do you need the boost?"
"They said this is just practice for me," he says. "Doesn't mean I won't pull through. But you should give it to someone who needs it."
Ryder replies," I don't mind leading again, if there are no takers. If no one needs it."
He looks at me, and I can tell he's just trying to be polite -- not to offend me -- knowing full well of how poor my standing is, and surely enough, the others follow his glance. 
Bertram says, "why don't you do it, Katiya?"
"Me?" I ask.
"Sure. I mean, you don't have to come up with the plan, it's just a title."
"Unless you don't want to," Ryder says, "then--"
"I'll do it," I say, snatching the headband from his hands. Even guised without desperation, they know where I stand. "And I'll come up with a plan."
"So what have you got, Team Leader?"
My mind races through volumes of combat strategies, whatever I can remember. It's a lot of facts, of old battles, of tactics and results, but the thoughts struggle to churn out answers when I'm so focused on the inevitable. I think of how it will feel when I return to the warfront. I imagine how Jullian will move on. How--
"Katiya, we need a plan! We're about to start," Paxton says. "When that blue flare fires, we need to fire ours and get moving right away."
"I know," I say. Why am I even here? I wonder, but now is surely not the time to think like that.
"How about I come up with a plan? You can keep the bandanna on," Paxton says, but I know he'd probably just come up with some direct assault, never being one for tact or patience.
But what have I got?
"I've got it. We'll split three ways," I say. The thought comes out by the word instead of pre-planned sentences. "Pax, you're great at being obnoxious, so you'll go it alone. Go ahead of us and create a distraction that will shift their focus behind the house." 
I hand him the flare gun.
"And then?" Ryder asks.
"And then we'll split in a basic pincer. Bertram and I go left to find a breach point. Ryder and Naya go right."
Bertram asks, "but what about the breach? Who will go first? Or at the same time?"
I think of the flare gun, and how it's the only tool for communication we have. "Pax will perform quick recon from behind the target. And he'll fire depending on where the hostages are. If they're concentrated on the right side of the house, his flare will fire to that side. Same for left. And if he can't tell, he'll fire straight up."
"And how does firing the flare like that change our strategy?" Pax asks.
"Because the first team to breach will be the side without the hostages, drawing them away," I say.
"Brilliant," Naya says. "No wonder you came up with most of our plan last time - minus the gold stripe."
"And what will I do after?" Pax asks.
"You join the last breaching party." I say. "The one that will have the best shot."
"And if it's straight-up?" He asks.
"Then you either break into the middle from a third breach point directly behind, or make your own judgement call."
"Ready!" Aldrin shouts, and I feel fear fill all the gaps and uncertainties in my plan like water fills a glass of ice. All the months I spent outside the base. All the combat practice drop-ins I missed. The space between the decrepit buildings begin to look like the shadows behind the sickly trees: a pattern of missing information that should be a second home to me, if only I wasn't so pathetic in my fear of the lands beyond.
All these thoughts blitz through my mind in the time the distant blue flare denotes their readiness to defend. And when Pax angles the first flare shell, taking the second one into his pocket, I feel the fear that restrained me in front of the carriage almost wholly consume my edge.
The first real exam begins as the five of us dissolve into the long shadow of the castle wall, finding our footing in the fading glow of the crimson flare.


==============================================
    CHAPTER TWO
==============================================



My presentation begins after the seven of them settle into the semicircle of office chairs, searching for the words to begin as my body blocks the blinding glow of the projector's rays.
The room is dimly lit, and so their seven silhouettes are hard to distinguish when the projector's lens burns the first slide into my retinas, reading CODY DUNSMORE, BATTERY SOLUTION across the Navidson-Monroe PowerPoint template. 
The sixteen-point Arial text is just the right size in the center of the first slide. Two lines. It reads: CODY DUNSMORE, BATTERY SOLUTION. Four words, two per line. A perfect split, and it even makes a square with the words.
I swallow. My voice catches in my throat as I can't decide whether to begin. The three unfamiliar envoys from Mahogany Row--far more used to their view from the ivory tower--are still busy typing an email, surely waiting for their Golden Boy to close it all out. But Nav watches closely, so instead of clearing my throat, I decide to proceed.
I temper the excitement from my voice. "After three years under the tutelage of senior engineers that have taught me everything about industry, I've come with a solution that I think will optimize ease of manufacturing," I say. "I wanted to make something as simple as possible. No over-engineering. Just exactly what we need without any extra features." I realize I'm gesturing with my hands, and I stop myself as I depress the clicker.
Click.
The light flashes with a standard fade-to-black transition at 0.3 seconds. Several pairs of eyes dance across the next slide, taking in the intricacies of the preliminary engineering drawing. Five pairs of them, while two are still busy typing an email. 
Sameshima squints with his glasses to read the enlarged engineering print. And after the criticisms over my last couple designs, I've managed to get it all on a single page.
"And it's all on a single page?" Kei asks.
"A single page," I say.
"And there's no assembly?" Nav asks.
"No assembly," I parrot. And I find there's a part of me that relishes the look of surprise when they see the reveal of how perfectly simplistic my design is. That unyielding glimmer of hope and excitement rises again: the one that gets me in trouble, dragged into a room a year ago by Nav to tell me that I talk too much.
Their eyes dance over the page, snared on the ANSI callouts and the title block, and as the time passes, my mind pieces together a story of how I came to design it. That I saw a piece of origami on Sameshima's desk and had the idea to make a single part. That it hearkens back to designing the drone back in college. And how it brought back the best worst memories of being three energy drinks deep at 3:00 AM trying to resolve the very core of my entire design, and then I'd make a joke that--
"So, yeah, folds on an angle brake five times," I say, crushing the artistry of my work like stepping on an aluminum can. "Nothing fancy. Entire pattern is laser-cut."
"So you're telling us that you managed to make this whole design a single part?"
Hell yeah, isn't it great? I think, but say, "yeah. Reduces material cost and labor. Current design is three brackets to hold the battery." I gesture to the contours of the 3D view, trying not to reveal the sweat that's saturated my armpits. "And in those lines there, there's a reference to where it mounts on the machine." I pull at my collar, feeling beads of sweat trickle down the back of my neck. "Three holes. And this will cost even less than the three brackets it currently takes to make this."
They sit with their mouths agape: my team, that is -- except for the executives, that looked up to find that they have no idea what they're looking at. Maybe my team wants me to tell them more, to boast a little. I surely want to, but something restrains that fleeting feeling.
"This is great," Kei says. "Seriously. It's incredible that you got this down to a single part!" 
And their reactions are real. For the first time in a while, even Nav looks impressed, while the executives look bored as hell.
The electrical engineer Michael asks, "what about mounting holes for the supply and ground of the battery wires?"
"That's on the next slide." Click. "I talked to our manufacturer, and they're able to emboss a flange for wire clips." A sweat drop rolls down my nose. I adjust my tie like Rodney Dangerfield, except I think I'm actually getting some respect, and Michael says, "that's also really smart. So the techs don't have to deal with those stupid clips."
"Not at all," I say.
"But how about how it all goes together?" Reed asks. I know he saw my slides before this, but he still looks captivated by the design. And despite our uncomfortable rivalry, it almost seems like he's posing the perfect question to lead me to the next slide.
"And that's why I have this to show you," I say.
Click.
A flash of black darkens the room for a split second, and on the next slide, an animation autoplays on the screen. Since something moves on the page, beyond pre-baked transitions and bullets of text, the executives look up from their computers. 
And it's the part I'm most proud of, feeling a rise of anticipation as they react to what I designed from scratch.
They all watch as my design folds perfectly into the shape from the first page, and from a flat pattern of laser-cut steel, the single piece folds from flower-like flanges into a bud as if it bloomed in reverse. The design was stolen from my past self -- from all the suffering I went through alone, designing a lightweight drone chassis with an unemployed college student's scrappy budget.
"But how does it fold like that?"
"Folds on an angle break," I say.
"And the holes are pre-drilled?"
"No, cut from the laser, or water-jet."
"And what's it made of?"
"Stainless steel."
"And how can the technicians mount it?"
"Through the relief cuts. Quarter-twenty screws like the last design."
I want to believe I've finally got it when I scan their faces. Maybe this time I can let that fleeting feeling wash over me, relishing in their response when I'm not wasting my talent on those stupid redlines. 
I feel like I did all those years ago when I presented the drone project. I remember that sliver of happiness between the brutal beatings of exams and class, and I almost think that back then I was happy for the first time since Jackson died, the way these fleeting moments rhyme.
But then an executive closes his laptop, leaning with his elbows on the steel cover. "That's great and all, Cory, but who would want to buy this?"
My heart pulses. I nearly drop the clicker. 
"What do you mean?" I ask.
"I mean, it looks so plain," he says. "Look. Our customers want something sleek. Functionality is fine and all, but marketability is what moves units."
"Plain? This is--" a fucking bracket, I think, but I halt the words.
"I mean, it has to be sellable," he says. "We'll send out a tech bulletin with this part, and no offense, but aren't their eyes going to glaze over if they see this? I don't mean to be harsh, but what makes it stand out?"
I squint my eyes, and through the blinding rays I find it's the man that gave Reed the box of "new guy" donuts to share on his first day. I stutter over my words. I look to my team for that same sense of wonder, but they're silent: too tense about layoffs to argue with the Grim Reaper.
But Kei speaks up. "I think it's brilliant," Kei says. "One sheet of steel? Minimal setups for the ones making it, as long as they hold down the center of the flat pattern?" She points, "look, he even considered that. It mounts right there with a cap screw."
Two more beads of sweat saturate my brow. I try to forestall the feeling of anger I feel: these executives' knowledge of our operations is shallower than a piss puddle; more pedestrian than a preschooler. And after all this effort -- to present something in EXACTLY the way they've molded me since the beginning, all I feel is a sense of betrayal.
But it's not the only sense of betrayal.
The executive continues, "I mean, what do you think, Naveen?"
He looks nervous, resisting his genuine sense of awe as he contorts his face into a grimace. "It's . . . I mean, I guess I can see some of that." He points to the engineering drawing on the screen, but he can't even meet my eyes. "Cody, who told you to make the corners so sharp on those bends?"
"I figured they would be close to ninety degrees, if it's in a steel brake," I say.
"You figured?" He asks.
"Yeah," I say. "I mean, this is just an early--"
"But did you talk to anyone?"
"Yeah." A familiar fear settles in my stomach. This will end just like all the others. "I, uh . . . talked to my father about it. It's how I got the fasteners to be accessible."
"But anyone else?"
"Not really," I say. The truth is I didn't want to bother anyone. I don't want to be lectured even more when I can swear I know my worth. And I wanted to surprise them: just to catch that moment I had before.
"And the metal thickness isn't even CE compliant," Nav says. "One-eighth? I mean, if you previewed this to any one of us, we'd be able to tell you that."
"We told Reed that," Michael says.
"This is just a prototype," I say.
The other executive says, "It might be a prototype, but what's our company's motto? What's the second pillar of the House Of Quality?"
"Built by precision," I regurgitate.
"And precision means getting things right," he says. The chair squeaks when he leans back. "Getting things right the first time. And what about the third pillar?"
"Rely on others."
Nav speaks up again. The point is to show your process. We don't do this work alone, and newer engineers should ask for advice." And then he adds, "Like Reed."
I want to tell them I wasn't trying to work alone. I want to tell them that I was excited to see their reactions from the moment I considered this, challenging myself to get this down to a single part and pulling through in the end. But all I can do is stand there and take it -- like being a pledge in the fraternity again, bludgeoned by broken rules when my works should at least be acknowledged.
At least someone seems to get it. While the others are stone-faced and unwilling to defend me, I find an unlikely voice of dissent. 
Reed balls his fists on the table, but still waits his turn to speak. "I thought Cody's folding concept was incredible! Mine uses far more parts than his does. And it's heavier. And it's bulkier. And yet Cody rolled out this design as if--"
The executive says, "but Reed, you asked the whole damn department for their input. So this is everyone's design."
Reed purses his lips, and an awkward silence spans the lineup of this unwitting firing squad. The projector whirs overhead. We can even hear the clattering of tools, machines, and raucous chatter behind us, as I wait for someone -- anyone else -- to speak up. But it's not a friend: there never seems to be anyone in my corner here.
"I think we agree that the problem with your design is that you didn't ask for help," one of Reed's visitors says. "The problem is that you came up with this, and you didn't ask for help. Or else these issues wouldn't be there." Another silence as the projector whirs overhead. "But I like the folding thing. And the animation on the second slide. Folds like origami."
Another silence.
He says, "do you have any other slides for us?"
The unfolding box plays over and over on the screen as a GIF: my presentation was only four slides by design.
"That's it," I say. "I was trying to keep things concise, not over-explain."
"Concise? How long did you spend on this?" He asks, scribbling something on his empty pad.
"Weeks," I say.
"Weeks?"
I turn my head away. Through the shades of the back window, I can see the glowing reflectors of the Aerospace building, and maybe it gives me just enough to reply.
"Yeah. Weeks," I say. "I thought you wanted something . . . optimized, you know. Inexpensive. And simple."
"I think it's simply great," Wilbur says, with enough years and irreplaceable knowledge to say whatever the hell he wants. "Cody, you did a great job, and this is really impressive."
I smile. "Thanks, Wilbur."
"No wonder I still have a lot to learn," Reed says.
I smile. "Thanks, Reed."
"Nice," Kei says.
I smile. "Thanks, Kei."
I turn to Nav, to Michael, to anyone else, but they're still as cardstock.
Another silence.
I press my thumb against the clicker, and after a final flash of darkness, a blank slide says QUESTIONS. But I'm sure I know their answer.
"Thanks for your feedback. I'll look over all that again. Wall thickness. CE compliance. Bend angle," I mutter, pulling the HDMI cord from the side of my machine, returning the room to darkness as Reed recircles to plug in his.
The screen lights with a bright and colorful presentation, bathing the walls in a mirage of hues like the northern lights: certainly not the standard template from the folder. And as he opens his mouth with a smile, he delivers his first, rehearsed line, with such a naive and enviable spark of genuine excitement.


Only the Gods above know how the other team will answer my plan. Beads of sweat absorb in the weave of the golden headband, without the exertion to warrant it: we've been advancing so slowly this whole time. But the light piece of fabric feels heavier than any piece of armor I'm wearing.
The old servants' quarter is so silent I can hear the cadets' conversations atop the walls. And though the voice inside my head is louder, recalling every moment I could have prepared for this, both voices gossip about the same thing. 
All the eyes are on me again. Aldrin leans over the edge of the parapet with binoculars, and the reflection of his lens looms like a searchlight in the shade of the scorched stone buildings.
As Bertram and I advance west, the glowing eye dances between the north -- where Ryder and Naya make their own advance -- and to the enemy's western corner, where Paxton sneaks to gather our first piece of ordinance.
Our steel boots crunch the dried leaves and charcoal. For a while, our two strike teams were neck-and-neck as we dispersed across the diamond shape of the battlefield, but now we no longer catch flashes of crimson between the narrow alleys. Either they're ahead us or behind us, but either way, I feel the anticipation rise for Pax's flare.
"We need to go faster," Bertram mutters. "We should be in front of the others. Why are we stopping?"
"Because we can't die before we get there. What if they run a forward ambush like we did last time? The move that brought us the victory?"
"You can't control for that," he says, as we pass the neutral flag, marking the exact center of the diamond. "I say this as your best friend, but you can't hesitate. We have to get there. Your plan will be dead before we even arrive!"
Somewhere ahead, something hard glances off a piece of metal scrap, and it freezes me in my tracks: waiting, listening just like I did every night at the window of the cabin, fighting a losing battle between my muscles and my mind. 
Bertram sighs as he drags me by the breastplate. "That was nothing."
"But how can you be sure?" I ask, hastening my pace when Aldrin's reflection focuses on us, casting a widening disk of incident rays the further we get.
"Because the others are already long ahead," he says. "Look at where Aldrin's light goes: the others are already in position!"
I curse out loud with an exasperated sigh.
He says, "You're giving them time to come straight to us! Every second--"
"I know, Bertram, I know," I say.
"I don't have anything riding on this," he says. "I'm just saying that now isn't the time to hesi--"
A loud blast echoes through the quarter, and with such high walls bounding the battlefield, I have no directional sense to tell where it comes from. 
But it's directly in front of us.
I duck for cover.
"Katiya, now's not the time!" He mutters.
I say, "We need to get around--"
"We need to go straight, and run. Run! Now!"
He drags me again as we sprint through the wide alley, presenting himself as a shield to pacify my cowardice. I level the training rifle behind him, and when Aldrin's scope illuminates us, I advance so I'm shoulder-to-shoulder with him.
Another blast echoes through the air. My body lunges for the nearest alley, but Bertram's strong grasp prevents me from escaping. And for the first time, I see his infinite patience with my trauma begin to crumble.
"Gods damn it, Katiya!" He says. "Show some spine and use that anger. How are we ever going to get to Hillfar to make peace with the past, when--"
Aldrin's searchlight hovers over us again, and then a little east. My bout of hesitation plays out in the limelight when we're both exposed, and it's when the light flickers a little north that I know exactly what's going to happen.
If I hesitate one second more, they'll all see what I really am. A fraud. A coward. That I'm still that terrified little girl, pretending to be a guard.
And maybe that's all I'll ever be.
"Gods damn--"
Bertram's head cocks to the side, catching a glimpse of something that I don't, and as my muscles lock up, he pushes me with all his might.
Bertram takes a full blast of chalky, blue powder to his chest, blown backwards against a stack of broken crates that crumble under his weight. The red chalk that decorates his face now blended purple, marking him as the first victim.
"I can't keep saving you," he shouts, balling his fists as he winces, and now finally I hate myself enough to act. "I can't keep being your shield. One day, this is going to be real!"
I peek out of the corner, sighting the adversary that's reloading the rifle, then pull the trigger. My first round misses, and I dive behind the corner of the alley while Bertram's disappointed glare propels this self-hate to unprecedented heights. 
I groan again, cursing myself as I rack another round. Something slams against the other side of the wall, casting a cloud of blue dust into the air, and in the space that Bertram's killer takes to reload, I raise my weapon, steadied with my shoulder against the corner of the wall.
But I remember my accuracy moments before. Jullian's friend is in my sights as my finger feathers the trigger, but all I can think of is the instructor's red marks on the target sheet, giving me a failing score.
Failure, I think. And so the chance passes. 
As my hands tremble with the training rifle, a second figure strolls fearlessly in the middle of the street, illuminated by Aldrin's lens that reflects a blue-and-gold headband. 
It's her again. She levels her rifle in my direction, ears twitching with every sound that might reveal me, and when she sees my face, she pulls the trigger with an accuracy that punched perfect holes in paper targets. 
Another cloud of blue chalk saturates the air as my heart jumps into my throat, followed by two more blasts from her rifle. And as Bertram returns to home base, his hands raised in reluctant surrender, I wipe the faint blue mist from my face, trying to decide what to do next.
Aryn directly calls out to me, sending gooseflesh down my arms and legs. I'm unsure whether it's her tone, or how afraid I am of the thrashing I'll receive at the end of this. 
"What leader lets their teammates take bullets for them? Come out here and fight me, Katiya!"
I crouch behind the corner, still deciding how to use this spike of adrenaline.
"Do you plan to lead from the back forever, Katiya?" She asks, and as I hear her getting closer, I decide to run: running down the next alley to race to the original rally point. 
Fight defaults to flight, but at least I'm running, fueled wholly on disappointment as I draw my dagger, putting the two insurgents behind me: exactly where I don't want them.
The intended action point is approaching, and at least my conditioning can get me there fast in this heavy armor: all I've ever done my whole life is run. I hear the blasts echo from behind, running in a zig-zag pattern like a hare evading the jaws of a predator. Blue chalk accents the walls to the left and right. Aryn shouts something else, but I'm unable to hear her when my heartbeat pounds in my ears, drawing raspy breaths that taste like poison as the breach point approaches.
But then Pax's radiant signal launches into the air, followed by a loud pop. I'm still running, exhausted; mind racing too fast to respond quickly when I blast through the door; heart racing too rapidly to catch a breath before I breach.
And I notice the flare arcs towards me.
This was a plan based on time, and my fear has left me behind. Expecting Bertram and I to be waiting on the other side, I hear a crash as Naya and Ryder bludgeon their way through the far door, and a long five seconds later, I finally find the wall where Bertram and I should have been waiting.
Several blasts echo between the walls as Aldrin's searchlight illuminates the entire footprint of the roofless building. I lower my shoulder to breach through the door, entirely unprepared for what I find waiting for me on the other side.

Reed's entirely prepared as he advances towards his last slide. In the lower corner, it reads 20 OF 20: even with a custom progress bar to show the stages of his presentation.
"And, again, here's a full view of my assembly," he says. "Not animated in that cool way like Cody's, but I've colored each of the parts." Each of the five parts: two more than the current design already uses. And although his design looks really cool - with even the company logo laser-etched into one of the faces- the design doesn't have a single sharp edge, defaulting to the rounds called fillets that are a bitch-and-a-half for machinists.
But this is everybody's design, according to Naveen. I watch his expression twist in all the ways it did durirng my first presentations, calling out impossible corners and stress concentrations. But he's been silent this whole time, along with all the others.
My smartwatch taps my wrist, and I sneak a glance at the message.
SAKURA_KEI 16:57:12:
For the record, yours is still my favorite.
She eyes me with concern.
